What is a healthy diet? For many, this is a difficult question to answer. There's no shortage of dietary options out there, and each one claims to be the healthy option. I don't believe there's a one-size-fits-all approach to diet-or to health, for that matter-but there are characteristics a healthy diet should have. It needs to be nutrient-dense and based on whole foods, not processed or refined foods. It needs to be nourishing and meet the individual needs of the person eating it. The nutrivore diet checks those boxes. nutrivore diet The nutrivore diet emphasizes high-quality, nutrient-dense foods. iStock/mediaphotos Page Contents: [hide] What Is the Nutrivore Diet? The Nutrivore Diet vs. the Standard American Diet What Is a 'Healthy Diet'? It Comes Down to Diet Quality and Nutrient Density Three Tips to Eat like a Nutrivore The nutrivore diet emphasizes whole foods that are rich in nutrients while avoiding the processed, inflammatory, and refined foods that drive chronic disease. The term 'nutrivore' was coined by Dr. Sarah Ballantyne to describe someone who eats foods that are nutritious and provide the micronutrients our bodies need to be healthy and thrive. In this article, I'll discuss what the nutrivore diet is'a healthy, whole foods approach to eating'and what it isn't'the standard American diet. Low-carb, low-fat, Paleo, plant-based ' The diet options out there are endless, but what really constitutes a healthy diet? Check out this article to find out. #nutrition #chriskresser What Is the Nutrivore Diet? The nutrivore diet is made up of nutrient-dense, anti-inflammatory whole foods like: Meat Organ meat Shellfish and fish Bone broth A variety of fresh fruits and vegetables (including sea vegetables) Nuts Seeds Tubers Starchy plants Nutrivores avoid inflammatory foods like industrial seed oils and refined flour, and avoid things like processed foods and excess sugars. Nutrivores also lead healthy lifestyles. They don't smoke, they don't drink excessively, they get plenty of exercise and plenty of sleep, and they manage their stress. The nutrivore diet isn't nearly as specific or restricted as some others. You won't find a list of macronutrient ratios you have to hit to call yourself a nutrivore, and there certainly isn't a one-size-fits-all nutrivore diet plan to follow. The nutrivore diet is all about focusing on the nutritious foods that will nourish your body'whatever that may look like for you. That may mean including grains, legumes, and dairy, if your body tolerates them, or cutting out these things if not. You may find that you thrive on a cyclical ketogenic diet, or you could discover that you feel better with a more moderate carb intake. You might also find success with different eating patterns, like intermittent fasting. We all have individual needs that vary, which means our personal definitions of a healthy diet will vary, too. In fact, the research into the diets of contemporary hunter'gatherers bears that out.
