Whales have been known to be the largest animals on Earth! They are also being known as sea creature that are mammals. They are weight 200 tons in average and can stretch up to 100 feet long. Which is as long as a professional basketball court. We often see in the news about those big whales that dies and being wash away to the beach. Did you know that after some time, these whales could explode? Dead whale Oregon One case that happened in UK, the police even warn the people nearby to stay atleast 40 feet away from the dead whale. Because when you poking the whale, you are giving it more reason to explode! Now why do they explode? Is it just whales or same goes with the other sea life creature? This started with a bad case of gas. When a whale die, it will take some time to build up gases in its stomach and other organs. This gas is known as Methane gas. What usually happen next is, this whale will balloon up twice from its original size. At this point, the whale deflates slowly as the gas seeps out. Then the skin begins to disintegrate, at which point the whale deflates slowly as the gas seeps out. One step before explode, the skin will keep stretching to accommodate the gas until it reaches breaking. Now let's take a look on how does this dead whale can produce methane gas. When a creature died, the death itself has 8 staged that this dead creature will phase through. It starts with Pallor Mortis and ends with Fossilization. The stage where this dead animal will start to produce Methane is at stage 5. The stage where this dead animal will start to produce Methane is at stage 5. In this situation, putrefaction and fermentation are likely the culprits. According to Wolfgang Weinmann, during putrefaction the proteins in an animal's tissues break down. Weinmann is a forensic toxicologist at the University of Bern in Switzerland. This is the main process that produces the smelly gas call Methane gas. It's also what causes organ liquefaction. On the other hand, he also added that fermentation also take places in this stage in which various of tissues dry out.In this process, it's also produces a number of other gases, such as carbon dioxide. Therefore, when putrefaction and fermentation come together, you can sometimes end up with a spectacularly bloated carcass. This is why a dead whale on the beach can balloon up twice from its original size. And because whales have a thick layer of blubber beneath their skin, air trapped within stays mainly in the whale until its skin degrades. Could be until someone decides it's time to relieve all that pressure. According to Mate, these impressive explosions are mainly caused by the size. When decomposition is taking place in such a large animal, more gas and pressure that build up inside its remains. This means that all dead animal and human going through the same process and also produces methane gas. 
