Whales have been known to be the largest animals on Earth! They are also being known as sea creature that are mammals. They are weight 200 tons in average and can stretch up to 100 feet long. Which is as long as a professional basketball court. We often see in the news about those big whales that dies and being wash away to the beach. Did you know that after some time, these whales could explode? Dead whale Oregon One case that happened in UK, the police even warn the people nearby to stay atleast 40 feet away from the dead whale. Because when you poking the whale, you are giving it more reason to explode! Now why do they explode? Is it just whales or same goes with the other sea life creature? This started with a bad case of gas. When a whale die, it will take some time to build up gases in its stomach and other organs. This gas is known as Methane gas. What usually happen next is, this whale will balloon up twice from its original size. At this point, the whale deflates slowly as the gas seeps out. Then the skin begins to disintegrate, at which point the whale deflates slowly as the gas seeps out. One step before explode, the skin will keep stretching to accommodate the gas until it reaches breaking. Now let's take a look on how does this dead whale can produce methane gas. When a creature died, the death itself has 8 staged that this dead creature will phase through. It starts with Pallor Mortis and ends with Fossilization. The stage where this dead animal will start to produce Methane is at stage 5. The stage where this dead animal will start to produce Methane is at stage 5. In this situation, putrefaction and fermentation are likely the culprits. According to Wolfgang Weinmann, during putrefaction the proteins in an animal's tissues break down. Weinmann is a forensic toxicologist at the University of Bern in Switzerland. This is the main process that produces the smelly gas call Methane gas. It's also what causes organ liquefaction. On the other hand, he also added that fermentation also take places in this stage in which various of tissues dry out.In this process, it's also produces a number of other gases, such as carbon dioxide. Therefore, when putrefaction and fermentation come together, you can sometimes end up with a spectacularly bloated carcass. This is why a dead whale on the beach can balloon up twice from its original size. And because whales have a thick layer of blubber beneath their skin, air trapped within stays mainly in the whale until its skin degrades. Could be until someone decides it's time to relieve all that pressure. According to Mate, these impressive explosions are mainly caused by the size. When decomposition is taking place in such a large animal, more gas and pressure that build up inside its remains. This means that all dead animal and human going through the same process and also produces methane gas. But you not going to see this type of explosion if the dead animal is squirrel or gold fish. Mate added that the pressure builds up in these kinds of animals will eventually release itself. The animals will slowly deflate themselves. Bruce Mate is a director of the marine biology institute at Oregon State University. Mate has dealt with a lot of dead whales throughout his career, so he's also experienced in handling bloated whales that wash off to the beach. Methane gas explosion Whenever a dead whale landed on the beach and already bloated, there is a special team that will handle this kind of situation. But the handling process could go badly if someone is being careless. To deflate this whale, it could be a catastrophic. There was a case when people went near to this dead whale and stand on it. When the whale explodes, they were blown about 30 to 50 feet away. However, there were also few cases where the whale died and slowly sink to the bottom of the sea. When this happen, the dead whale will eventually become food to the other animals below. Dead whales Sadly, there are also some people that think preserve the skeleton of these whales as a tourist attraction. But to maintain the skeleton condition after preserved is not feasible. According to Mate, its expensive and complicated. What's complicated is, you have to remove all the soft tissues which is 85% of the whale's mass. Then you have to dispose the flesh. Plus, it's a very smelly job. This is why in this situation, it is the best if the dead whale slowly sink at the bottom of the sea. Therefore, beached whales aren't sights to celebrate since many of its species on the brink of becoming endangered. Nevertheless, it's certainly easier for people to deal with when it happens in the mammal's own territory, which is the ocean. Even though it's sad or unfortunate, whale death benefits other ocean inhabitants because it sparks the beginning of new life.
